# houseExpo++ dataset
## houseExpo dataset augmented with design semantic and crowd behavioral features

The original dataset was create by Tingguang Li and et al. at Robotics, Perception, and AI Laboratory, The Chinese University of Hong Kong. The paper and video can be found at: https://arxiv.org/abs/1903.09845 . It contained about 35,126 2D floor plans with 252,550 rooms in total, together with the category label of each room(https://github.com/TeaganLi/HouseExpo).

houseExpo++: The houseExpo dataset which is augmented with design semantic features and crowd behaviroal features.

### Folder structures:
- images: includes images of each floorplan(grayscale).
- graphs: a json file for each floorplan which has the design semnatic features including square footage, connection between rooms and the connections direction.
- human behavioral features: a json file for each floorplan which includes the original data of houseExpo dataset plus human behavioral features for each room. These human behaviroal features are generated by crowd simulation(SteerSuite, https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1007/978-3-642-10347-6_15).

### Data Format:
#### graphs:
A list of dictionary corresponding to rooms. In each dictionry(for each room) we have the following keys:
- label: an unique label for each room

- position: the center coordinate(X,Y) of each room

- square footage: calculated square footage of each room

- connections: a list of dictionaries to connected nodes and the direction of connections

#### human behaviroal features:
A json file for each floorplan which includes the original data provided in houseExpo plus the human behavioral features in following format: 

- id (string): the unique house ID number.

- room_num (int): the number of rooms of this house.

- bbox (dict): bounding box of the whole house
  -- "min": (x1, y1)
  -- "max": (x2, y2)

- verts (list): each element (x, y) represents a vertex location (in meter).

- room_category (dict): the room categories and its bounding box, for example "kitchen": (x1, y1, x2, y2), bounding box of each kitchen.

- simulation_statistics (list): a list of simulation statistics for each bounding box within a room_category. 

  - not_completed_agents (int): number of agents who couldn't complete the crowd simulation scenario

  - max_evacuation_time (float): maximum time in seconds took by an agent in completing the simulation scenario

  - min_evacuation_time (float): minimum time in seconds took by an agent in completing the simulation scenario 

  - exit_flow_rate (float): the rate at which agents complete the simulation scenario (agents/second)

  - completed_agents (int): number of agents who successfully completed the crowd simulation scenario

  - max_traveled_distance (float): maximum distance in meter traveled by an agent in completing the simulation scenario

  - avg_evacuation_time (float): average time in seconds took by all the agent in completing the simulation scenario

  - avg_traveled_distance (float): average distance in meter traveled by all the agent in completing the simulation scenario

  - min_traveled_distance (float): minimum distance in meter traveled by an agent in completing the simulation scenario 

